---
title: "Introduction"
bg: petrole
color: white
fa-icon: female
---

#### Introduction

We believe that media outlets can only be unbiased, if the people in charge as well as the voices portrayed come from a diverse and society-representative background. Here we focus on gender representation in media outlets of the USA with the help of Quotebank, a comprehensive dataset which collected quotes from a large number of English-speaking online media. 
While the simple question whether equal gender represenation has been achieved in the media landscape can easily (and without the need of any data science) be negated by simply looking at the world we live in, we envison to show a more fine-grained approach to the topic.
All questions are investigated in the cultural context of the USA by selecting quotes stemming from the most influential US media. Both thanks to the vastness of data available for the USA as well as due to the fact that the country exhibits a pronounced political polarization into two camps that often are presented to have opposing views on women's rights and ideal roles, we set out to elucidate these questions with the help of big data. 


Using the information about the quotes – the person being cited as well as the provenance of the news article – we explore the representation of female voices on three different levels: At the central level we investigate the ratio of quotes in the quotebank stemming from women under a variety of different conditions, such as political affiliation of the newspapers, readership size, etc. On a meta-level we also investigate the proportion of female editors in the news outlets present, again in a detailed fashion across the accessible dimensions. These insights we link to the proportion of women cited within the respective newspapers. Thirdly, utilizing the content of the quotes themselves we determine whether a difference in topics can be observed for which the different genders are cited. Furthermore, with a similar method we investigate the different contextualization of women and men within the news stories and deduce potential stereotype propagations.



Women in media have always....

- blabla
- blabla
