---
title: "Introduction"
bg: petrole
color: white
fa-icon: female
---

#### Introduction - INCLUDE NUMBERS FROM SOURCES, SET stage and phrase such that we want to investigate claims by analysing Quotebank
Although women break gender stereotypes on a daily basis and step by step appropriate themselves the world that was created by men, society remains to be full of preconceptions about how they should be and what they should (not) do. Despite not being formulated outright anymore, these expectations remain and likely also influence subtly the ways women are depicted in the media. Although it is clear that we live in the era of social media instead of classic media such as print press, radio and televison which had dominated the previous century, and lots of the opinion formation is happening on these new channels, they still form an important glimpse into the societies from which they emerge and thus are interesting objects to investigate societal stereotypes.

In this work we focus on gender representation in media outlets of the USA with the help of Quotebank, a comprehensive dataset which collected quotes from a large number of English-speaking online media. 
While the simple question whether equal gender represenation has been achieved in the media landscape can easily (and without the need of any data science) be negated by simply looking at the world we live in, we envison to show a more fine-grained approach to the topic.
To be precise, we are investigating it in the cultural context of the USA by selecting quotes stemming from the most influential US media. Both thanks to the vastness of data available for the USA as well as due to the fact that the country exhibits a pronounced political polarization into two camps that often are presented to have opposing views on women's rights and ideal roles, we set out to elucidate these questions with the help of big data. 

In a first step we give an overview over the media landscape in the USA: Behind the scenes, we investigate what the proportion of female editors in the subset of largest media outlets is and how this affets the proportion of women being quoted. Then again, this is differentiated under the angle of the political spectrum to which the respective medium is attributed. (LINK)
Since numbers are never enough to paint the full picture, we subsequently dive into analyzing the topics for which women and men are quoted as well as the topics that thematize women and men. Again, this is scrutinized under the light of overall media represenation and the respective left-leaning and right-leaning portions.

From these analyses we hope to draw insightful conclusions that allow the media consumers to potentially let themselves influence less by the subtle bias since known enemy is always a less dangerous one. 






